[Music]
oh now you're talking it wasn't just a
riding experience that drew Patrick and
Lisa to Egyptian Arabia no it was this
man trainer Tom McManaman out of the
barroom but when you when she puts her
head down loosen it that's that
loosen up a little bit don't you say it
is it's like dealing with gifted
children the majority of these horses
that they have any idea what you want
you only have two short term what's
twice and then they have it and it's
better you don't have to teach the
tournament campus for more than 20 years
tom has been breeding and training
Arabians at Glenrock farms one of the
top Arabian studs in the United States
now the horses and their bloodlines have
moved to thistlewood that's what I'm
saying you can't do much but when I got
a chance to go go see Tom's Egyptian
Arabian they got in luck when I was
little and you know I saw him without
any obvious commands when you turn your
love be able to just talk to these
horses and tell them to stand up on
their hind legs and walk over to our lay
down or kneel or bow or you're like they
understood
[Music]
Patrick's profile worked against him on
the circuit his hard work around the
farm may have gone unnoticed but he's
showing it competitions didn't and
judges were keen not to display any
favoritism to one of America's favorite
movie stars but in 1993 Patrick and
Chairman finally won Grand Champion at
the Nationals over the years it's
happened they people are gradually you
know sort of saying that I'm serious
about this and I care about the horses
more I care about my little imogen and
I'm accepted now so going Grand Champion
there was like a big event for me
competition is uncaught of it right 10
minutes turned out to be quite a fun
[Music]
we're in Hammond six years for crops and
his babies have been winning everywhere
and they have his traits they grow up to
be lovely beings with a gentle spirit
like he had
smelling me taking the airflow and bring
a wet you're staying in I don't know
what people are here if you breathe in a
your horses nostrils often it creates
bond
they know you take it and you watch it
you watch their eyes it's almost there
almost droop when you're there breathing
in your nose and they can stay there
forever because it just smells like
you're cheap you know just sits a
sweetest thing I've ever seen my life is
the sexiest thing I've ever seen in my
life
most of us have an animal in our lives
we call a friend
and like other human friendships you
learn from each other and grow I think
any being on this earth responds to love
unconditional love and I don't think I'm
real talented as a horse I hope to be by
the time I die and it's a process that
I'm excited about living my whole life
because now I've seen there's no end to
the process
very chilly 6:00 a.m. as actor dirty
dancer and self-proclaimed daredevil
Patrick Swayze arrived at the stables
good morning
squeezy is here at the u.s. national
Arabian Championship Horse Show in
Albuquerque New Mexico to show his
prized Egyptian stallion
Taman two hours from now Swayze will
personally handle Taman in the ring most
owners hire professionals to do the job
an expert horseman Swayze is savoring
this chance to compete against the best
for the national championship that's
right that's caught Patrick Swayze is no
stranger to the quest in his leading 39
years he's already tried and experienced
a lot he's been a gymnast danced with
the ballet acted on Broadway and
television and film skydive and it
spiritually traveled from Roman
Catholicism to ask to Scientology before
finally settling on Buddhism a Bourne
seeker life for Swayze isn't a
destination it's a journey we sat and
talked along the banks of